

### Agent based modelling Papers

*  _2014_ Agent-Based Modeling and Investors’ Behavior Explanation of Asset Price Dynamics on Artificial Financial Markets[[1-s2.0-S2212567114004286-main.pdf]] 
	* **Remarks** : Considered investor's rationality, heterogenity and ideologies.
	* **Abstract** : Standard asset pricing models based on rational expectations and homogeneity have problems explaining the complex and volatile nature of financial markets. The heterogeneity in expectations can lead to market instability and complicate dynamics of prices, which are driven by endogenous market forces. In this sense, we use Agent-based computational approach and more specifically artificial Stock Market modeling to explore the market dynamics from a behavioral perspective. Our aim is to point out that the investors’ irrationality explains various numbers of financial anomalies, especially the phenomena that traditional financials models have never been able to explain. We built a virtual financial market that contains three types of investors: fundamentalists, non-fundamentalist and loss adverse investors. Therefore, the difficulty of the prediction is due to several features: the complexity, the non-linearity and the dynamism of the financial market system, as well as the investor psychology.The Artificial Neural Networks learning mechanism take on the role of traders, who from their futures return expectations and place orders based on their expectations. The results of intensive analysis indicate that the existence of agents having heterogeneous beliefs and preferences has provided a better understanding of price dynamics in the financial market.
* 2020 An Agent-Based Approach to Artificial Stock Market Modeling [[An_Agent-Based_Approach_to_Artificial_Stock_Market.pdf]]
	* **Remarks** : Simple attempt to model a artificial stock market
	* **Abstract** : Consumer stock markets have long been a target of modeling efforts for the economic gains anticipatorily enabled by well-performing models. Aimed at identifying strategies capable of achieving desired returns, many modeling approaches have attempted to capture the innumerable and intricate complexities present within these adaptive socio-technical systems. Decreasingly constrained by available computation power, contemporary models have grown in sophistication to include several of the features present in de facto market systems. However, these models require extensive effort to dictate the variety of states, behaviors, and adaptations that entities of the system may exhibit. Mandating the development of complex formulas and an incredible number of situational considerations, traditional approaches to stock market modeling are intensive to architect and applicable to a limited range of scenarios. Further, these models commonly fail to incorporate external influences on the actions of investing parties. Employing an agent-based approach, independent and externally influenced entities are modeled to simulate market activity. Under the jurisdiction of assigned simple rules, agents of the system interact in complex and emergent ways without requiring macroscopic guiding equations. Successive trails are conducted using varying initialization values, enabling the determination of robust investment strategies performing well across a range of market scenarios.